Prevent workspace starts during Gitpod update for single cluster ref arch (#2777)
gitpod-io/website: gitpod/docs/self-hosted/latest/prevent-workspace-starts.md

---
section: self-hosted/latest
subsection: troubleshooting
title: Prevent Workspace Starts
---

<script context="module">
  export const prerender = true;
</script>

# Prevent Workspace Starts

It may be necessary for you to prevent users from starting Gitpod workspaces (in a `<namespace>`). Please see the [update guide](./updating) for more information.

> It is required to prevent workspace starts when updating Gitpod and using the [Single Cluster Reference Architecture](../latest/reference-architecture/single-cluster-ref-arch) because it is not highly-available.

> This can be done with `kubectl`, after which, users won't be able to start workspaces until the `ws-manager` pod is running again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done by scaling the ws-manager component down to zero, after which, users won't be able to start workspaces until the `ws-manager` pod is running again.
```
